George Brown College

Why choose George Brown College?

    Toronto is home to many major industries in Canada and is one of the most important 
    economic hubs in North America. As such, the city becomes a living lab for our students. 
    We have three campuses and several locations that place students in the heart of 
    downtown Toronto — St. James Campus, Casa Loma Campus and Waterfront Campus.

    We’ve taken advantage of our location to give our students an edge in the job market. 
    We partner with companies and organizations that play a role in the academic life of 
    our students by advising course curriculum, and providing field education and employment. 
    By helping us develop curriculum, these companies nurture our students to meet industry 
    needs and gain skills that are highly sought after in the current job market.


History of George Brown College

Who was George Brown?
    George Brown (1818-1880) was a 19th-century Scottish-born Canadian politician, newspaper 
    publisher (he founded The Globe, precursor to The Globe and Mail) and was one of the Fathers 
    of Confederation. An essential figure in the formation of Canada, Brown was a strong believer 
    in public education.

    In 1967, Canada’s centennial year, Bill Davis, then the Ontario Minister of Education, 
    suggested that George Brown College would be a suitable name for the new college of applied 
    arts and technology, noting: “the city to which George Brown added such lustre as a reformer, 
    journalist, and statesman should honour him in this way.”

Evolution, education, employment
    George Brown College opened its doors in 1968, welcoming just over 2,000 students. 
    In addition to programs in construction, early childhood education, dental services and the 
    culinary arts — subjects we continue to teach — we once offered programs that might not be quite 
    as relevant today, like signwriting and watchmaking. Believe it or not, we even prepared students 
    for careers at sea through a marine engineering program.

    Since then, our full-time student population has grown to around 30,000. People come to George Brown 
    from across the Greater Toronto Area, the country and the world to develop the skills and gain the 
    real-world experience needed to succeed in the workplace.

    Since 2004, George Brown has more than doubled in size, broadened our international partnerships and 
    increased our commitment to strengthening the cultural, economic and social fabric of Toronto.